And the next thing I'd like to talk
about is control structures in Go.
And we're talking about if statements,
four loops, and switch statements.
Some of the kind of more common ways to
navigate through logic
in our applications.
So I'm gonna be living in the ifs.go
file which is in the third section
here in basic_syntax/code/ifs.go.
So I'll hop back over to
our code editor here.
So I'd like to start with a comment about
some of the code snippets you'll find as
we work through the rest of the workshop.
You'll notice that when I
first walked into this file,
there was a lot of
commented out green text.
At the top of the file,
there's a little instruction here
to uncomment this entire file,
and this will kind of let us walk through
some of the code blocks in smaller chunks.
So for the first if block,
I wanna talk about,
we have a variable declared as some
bar and it's set to an integer of 9.
In my if block, you'll notice that
the first statement is a conditional, but
it doesn't have parentheses
which are not required in Go.
Then you have our opening curly brace, and
then whatever logic we'd like to
execute lives within the curly braces.
So the curly braces are required,
parentheses are not.
If you wanna get a little bit more
specific, Go does come with else if and
else block, so
which behave is similar to JavaScript.
Whatever is executed within the first
if block that returns true,
so if some bar is greater than 100,
we'll get that first block, and
it will not execute the following
else if or else blocks.
So the next thing I'd like to talk about
a little bit is this assignment operator
with the shorthand syntax, so
we have err assigned to some function.
And this will be a pattern that we see
pretty frequently throughout the day, and
err is gonna represent an error here.
We're gonna talk about error handling
pretty in depth down the road.
But right now, we're assigning a variable
which is gonna an error to some function.
So if this function returns an error, save
it to this variable so we can use it and
figure out what we wanna do with it.
In our if block here, We're
asking if that error is not nil, meaning
if something was stored in this variable,
we want to execute some code
to handle that said path.
And so for error,
we're simply using the err.Error
function which we'll talk about later.
But assuming error is not mil,
something horrible happened,
what we wanna do about it?
This is a very common use of an if
block in Go to handle errors, and
we'll see this a 100 times today.
And the last pattern, I'd like to discuss
it will start using pretty shortly,
is one of my favorite patterns and go.
And it allows you to both define
a variable and then check about
that variable in a conditional sense
before executing code within curly braces.
So what's happening on line 37 here, is
we're saying, hey, set err to the result
of someFunction once it executes, and
then check to see if that thing is nil.
So we're both defining the variable,
we're checking the conditional, and
then we're firing off whatever code lives
within the curly braces within one line.
The other interesting thing about this
pattern is that anything that's scoped
within an if block is kind of
contained within that if block.
So now, this err variable,
it's not accessible elsewhere.
If we wanted to redefine it, we could.
It's kind of like scoped within
this little chunk of code.
So we can reuse it as much as we want
throughout our program which is gonna be
something we do in a little while.